# Protein-Function-Characterization

Neuro-Fuzzy based machine learning model is proposed in the present work for the functional characterization of Unknown Protein Sequence (UPS) using subcellular localization and augmented features of the protein sequences. This work has been carried out in two phases. In the first phase UPS are categorized as Unknown Gram-Negative Bacterial Protein Sequences (Unk_GN_BPS) using Neuro-Fuzzy classifier for the formation of Unk_GN_BPS dataset. After that function of the Unk_GN_BPS are predicted using validated Protein Subcellular Localization (PSL) model in second phase. 

Two independent sets of the prokaryotic bacterial protein sequences are extracted from the Uniprot knowledge-base and curated as two different UPS datasets Unk_Proka_304 (Prokar_Test_1_Ind_5_304) and Unk_Proka_105 (Prokar_Test_2_Ind_5_105). After that each sample of UPS dataset is mapped with the every sample of known Gram-Negative Bacterial Protein Sequences (GN_BPS) (Gram_Negative_Final_5) dataset using fuzzy inference. Samples of UPS dataset which are matched with the samples of known GN_BPS dataset according to defined rule have been predicted as Unk_GN_BPS using neural network. After applying NFA in Unk_Proka_304 dataset with 304 samples, we can get 156 sequences of the Unk_GN_BPS as Unk_GN_156 (GN_Test_1_Ind_5_156), and for another dataset Unk_Proka_105 with 105 sequences, we can get 61 Unk_GN_BPS samples as Unk_GN_61 (GN_Test_2_Ind_5_61). Next Function of the UPS and Unk_GN_BPS are predicted using validated PSL model. 

First step towards the formation of PSL model is transformation of raw protein sequences into the features vector. Augmented feature vector of the GN_BPS has been framed with total 174 dimension, using five diverse feature extraction techniques such as Amino Acid Composition (AAC) 20-dimension, Composition Transition Distribution (CTD) 39-dimension, Pseudo Amino Acid Composition (PseAAC) 50-dimension, Grouped Dipeptide Composition (GDPC) 25-dimension, and Pseudo Position Specific Scoring Matrix (PsePSSM) 40-dimension. Localizations of the subcell are considered as class labels of feature vector. After that six different individual and ensemble classifiers namely Decision-Tree (C-4.5), k-Nearest-Neighbor (k-NN), Multi-Layer-Perceptron (MLP), Naïve-Bayes (NB), AdaBoost, and Gradient-Boosting-Machine (GBM) are trained with 10-fold cross validation using augmented feature vector of GN_BPS dataset.



